# Backtracking in Git
---

## Showing Latest Commit Logs 
In Git, the commit you are currently on is known as the `HEAD` commit. The `git show HEAD` command 
will output everything the `git log` command display for the `HEAD` commit and all the file changes 
that were made when committed. 


## Reset Using SHA
Let's say you want to go back to a previous commit, how does one do that? Well you use the  
`git reset commit_SHA` command, and what it does is set the `HEAD` commit to the `commit_SHA` commit. 
To use `git reset`, you will need to use the first seven digits of the previous commit's 
SHA, and that can be found using the `git log` command to see records of previous commits.  

## Remove File from Staging 
Let's say you've added a file's changes to the staging area, but you change your mind, you can do the 
following, `git reset HEAD <filename>`, and what it does is remove the file from the staging area. 

`Note: This does not discard changes made in the working directory`  

You can use `git status` to make sure your file was properly removed from the staging area. 

## Going Back to the Last Commit
Let's say you want to go back to the changes made in a file in your last commit, or the `HEAD` commit. 
To do this, you can use `git checkout HEAD <filename>` and it will make the file in the working 
directory to go back to the changes made in the last commit.  

You can make sure it worked by using `git diff` command to see if the rollback was successful. If
nothing is outputted, that means it worked. 
