# Branching in Git
---

## The Master Branch 
When you initialize a git project, all work by default is done on the `master` branch. When 
you make your first commit, the `master` branch is automatically created. 

**Note:** You can have the `master` branch be `main` using `git branch -M main` after the first commit.  

You can create new branches from the `master` branch when you develop new features in your project 
or when you do testing. You can also see which branch you're on by using the `git branch` command. 

```bash
# Here's an example of the Phaktionz-CLI branches 
$ git branch 
* beta
  edge
  main
  stable
# As can be seen, the master branch is switched to main 
# and the current branch being worked on is the beta branch. 
```

## Creating a New Branch
In Git, the `git branch branch_name` command is used to create a new branch called `branch_name`. 
Branches should be named something that describes the purpose of the branch.  

For example: The `beta` branch represents the beta channel of Phaktionz-CLI. 

Also a branch name cannot contain white spaces: `some_name` or `some-name` are valid, 
however `some name` is invalid. 

## Deleting a Branch 
In Git, you can delete a branch by using `git branch -d branch_name`, and then the branch 
named, `branch_name` will be removed. 

**Note:** Usually it's a good idea to merge the branch with the `master` branch before deleting. 

## Merging a Branch
In Git, if you would like to merge a branch with another, use the `git merge` command. 
When you use the command `git merge branch_name`, it will merge the branch, `branch_name` to
the branch you're currently on.  

This is useful when your new feature works, so you can merge all the changes in that branch 
to your `master` branch. 