# Teamwork in Git
---

## Git Remote 
When you work in a group, it is typical to collaborate with others using a Git server, or 
a website like Github (highly recommended). 

A `remote` is essentially a shared Git repository that allows for multiple collaborators. 
Now keep in mind collaborators work independently, and merge their changes when ready. 

## Cloning a Remote Repository
Now how do you get to work on your partner's git repository...on let's say your organization's github? 
Well why not clone the repository? 

You can use the `git clone` command.

It works locally:  
```bash
$ ls
git-repository

$ git clone git-project/ git-clone-project # git clone remote-repo output-directory(optional)
Cloning into 'git-clone-project'...
done. 

$ ls
git-clone-project git-project

```  
It works on remote sites, such as Github:  
```bash
# HTTP Clone
$ git clone https://github.com/user/repo.git

# SSH Clone
$ git clone git@github.com:user/repo.git

```

## Fetching Changes 
The command `git fetch` downloads objects and changes from a remote repository `origin`. 

It however doesn't automatically merge these changes to your current branch, but instead 
keeps all the changes in a new branch `origin/branch-name`. 

Now let's see this in action: 

```bash
$ git branch
* master

$ git fetch
remote: Counting objects: 3, done. 
remote: Compressing objects: 100% (3/3), done. 
remote: Total 3 (delta 1), reused 0 (delta 0)
Unpacking objects: 100% (3/3), done. 
From /home/user/git-project 
* [new branch]      master     ->  origin/master

$ git branch
* master
  remotes/origin/master

```  

To merge these changes, it's like last section, use the command `git merge` in the branch you want to have
merge with the target branch. 

To merge the fetch changes for our example, we do `git merge origin/master` on branch `master`. 

## Pushing Changes 
In Git, the `git push origin branch-name` command pushes the branch `branch-name`, and all of the committed changes, to the remote `origin`. 
This branch can now be reviewed and fetched by collaborators.

## Looking at the Remotes
In Git, the `git-remote -v` command returns a list of remote repositories that the current project is connected to.

- Git lists the name of the remote repository as well as its locations.
- Git automatically names this remote origin, because it refers to the remote repository of origin. 
  - However, it is possible to safely change its name.
- The remote is listed twice: once for (fetch) and once for (push).

```bash 
$ git-remote -v 
origin  /home/user/git-project/
(fetch)
origin  /home/user/git-project/
(push)

```

## A Typical Collaboration Workflow

A typical collaboration workflow is:
1. Fetch and merge changes from the remote
2. Create a branch to work on a new project feature
3. Develop the feature on a branch and commit the work
4. Fetch and merge from the remote again (in case new commits were made)
5. Push branch up to the remote for review

**Note:** Steps 1 and 4 are a safeguard against merge conflicts, which occur when two branches
contain file changes that cannot be merged with the `git merge` command.

Here's a bash script that can be made to ease the need of many commands: 

```bash
#!/bin/bash
git fetch
git merge origin/master 

echo "New Branch Name: "
read branch

git branch $branch
git checkout $branch

git fetch
git add * 

echo "Message: "
read message

git commit -m $message

git merge origin/master

git push -u origin $branch

```